docs(tuto): magento update MTA-1464a (#100)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/magento-ubuntu/index.mdx

  ```
  apt install php7.4 libapache2-mod-php7.4 php7.4-common php7.4-gmp php7.4-curl php7.4-soap php7.4-bcmath php7.4-intl php7.4-mbstring php7.4-xmlrpc php7.4-mysql php7.4-gd php7.4-xml php7.4-cli php7.4-zip
  ```

6. Then, authorize the `PHP` and `rewrite` apache modules.

  ```
  sudo a2enmod php7.4
  sudo a2enmod rewrite
  ```
7. Restart apache2.

  ```
  service apache2 restart
  ```
8. Install composer.
  ```
  sudo apt install composer
  ```
  When the installation is complete, you should see a warning message:
  ```
  Do not run Composer as root/super user! See https://getcomposer.org/root for details
  ``` 
## Creating an SSH user

To avoid running Composer as root, we will create a sudo user and grant it root permissions.

1. Create a new user. Replace `username` with the name of your choice. Enter a password for the user when prompted.
  ```
  sudo adduser username
  ```

2. Add the user to the sudo group.
  ```
  usermod -aG sudo username
  ```
3. Run the following command to open the `/etc/sudoers` file:
  ```
  visudo
  ```
4. Add the following permissions in the last line:
  ```
  username  ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
  ```
5. Save and close.

## Downloading Magento

> 1. Log in to your sudo user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into your sudo user.
```

  ```
  su - username
  ```
2. Check into the directory you want to install Magento in.
  ```
  cd /home/username
  ```
3. Use composer to install the tool. 
  ``` 
  sudo composer create-project --repository=https://repo.magento.com/ magento/project-community-edition magento2
  ```

> 4. When prompted enter enter your username and password. These are your Magento Public Key and Private Key, respectively. You can generate Magento Access Keys on [this page](https://marketplace.magento.com/customer/accessKeys/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. When prompted, enter your username and password. These are your Magento Public Key and Private Key, respectively. You can generate Magento Access Keys on [this page](https://marketplace.magento.com/customer/accessKeys/).
```

    - **Remove anonymous users? [Y/n]:** Type **Y**, then press enter
    - **Disallow root login remotely? [Y/n]:** Type **Y** and confirm by pressing enter.
    - **Remove test database and access to it? [Y/n]:** Type **Y** and press enter to continue.
    - **Reload privilege table now? [Y/n]:** Confirm by typing **Y**, then press enter.

3. Now that the database engine is configured, log into MariaDB using the `root` user and enter the password set in the previous step when prompted:

  ```
  mysql
  ```

4. Create new database for magento by running the following command in the MariaDB shell:

  ```
  CREATE DATABASE magento;
  ```

5. Create a user for magento. Replace `your_secret_password` with a password for the user to authenticate:

  ```
  CREATE USER 'magento_db'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'your_secret_password';
  ```

6. Grant the newly created user all permissons on the `magento` database:

  ```
  GRANT ALL ON magento.* TO 'magento_db'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'your_secret_password' WITH GRANT OPTION;
  ```

7. Save the changes and quit the MariaDB shell:

  ```
  FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
  EXIT;
  ```

## Downloading and installing Elasticsearch

> Since with its 2.4 version, Magento uses [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/) as the catalog search engine. Install it by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the 2.4 version of Magento has been released, it uses [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/) as the catalog search engine. Install it by following these steps:
```

1. Elasticserach uses a secure HTTPS transaction for its repositories. If not installed yet, install the `apt-transport-https` package use the `apt` package manager:
  
  ```
  apt-get install apt-transport-https
  ```

> 2. Import the the Elasticsearch PGP key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Import the Elasticsearch PGP key:
```

  ```
  wget -qO - https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | sudo apt-key add -
  ```

> 3. Create a new sources file for the Elasticsearch repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a new source file for the Elasticsearch repository:
```

  ```
7. Restart Elasticsearch.
  ```
  service elasticsearch restart
  ```

## Installing Magento 

1. Change into the directory where Magento is located in your Instance.

  ```
  cd /home/username/magento2
  ``` 
2. Run the command below to install magento. Replace the variables in the command to match your previous configuration and set the username and password for your Magento `admin` user.
  
  ```
  sudo bin/magento setup:install --base-url=http://example.com/ --db-host=localhost --db-name=magento --db-user=magento_db --db-password=your_secret_password --admin-firstname=Admin --admin-lastname=User --admin-email=admin@example.com --admin-user=admin --admin-password=admin123 --language=en_US --currency=EUR --timezone=Europe/Paris --use-rewrites=1
  ```
3. Restart Apache.

  ```
  sudo service apache2 restart
  ```
4. Rewrite `a2enmod`.
  ```
  sudo a2enmod rewrite
  ```
5. Enable Magento.
  ```
  sudo chmod -R 755 /home/username/magento2
  sudo chown -R username:username /home/username/magento2
  ```
6. Restart Apache once more. 
  ```
  sudo systemctl restart apache2.service
  ```

## Securing the connection using Let's Encrypt

> By default plain HTTP connections are not encrypted and data is transmitted in clear text over the Internet. To secure the connection between your users and the e-commerce site, a TLS/SSL certificate is highly recommended. We will therefore request a free TLS certifiticate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). We use [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) to obtain and renew the certificate automatically for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default plain HTTP connections are not encrypted and data is transmitted in clear text over the Internet. To secure the connection between your users and the e-commerce site, a TLS/SSL certificate is highly recommended. We will therefore request a free TLS certificate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). We use [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) to obtain and renew the certificate automatically for us.
```

1. Install `certbot` using the apt package manager:

  ```
  apt-get install certbot python3-certbot-apache
  certbot --apache
  ```

2. Follow the steps prompted by Certbot to obtain your certificate and reconfigure the Apache2 web server.

3. You can now check your storefront by pointing your web browser to your domain name to check everything is working:

<Lightbox src="scaleway-magento_storefront.png" alt=""/>

## Setting up the Magento Admin interface

> The Magento admin interface allows you manage your customers and products, and also customize the pages of your shop. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Magento admin interface allows you to manage your customers and products, and also customize the pages of your shop. 
```

<Message type="note">

  For more information about the admin interface, refer to the official [Magento documentation](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/configuration/configuration-basic.html) 

</Message>

The interface is available on a customized URL, which was displayed during the installation of your shop. 

1. Type the customized URL into your browser.

>   Magento 2.4 sets up two-factor authentication by default. To make your first log in to the admin interface seamless, we will disable 2FA via command line. You can enable it on the admin interface at a later time . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Magento 2.4 sets up two-factor authentication by default. To make your first log in to the admin interface seamless, we will disable 2FA via command line. You can enable it on the admin interface at a later time. 
```

2. Disable 2FA with the following command:
  ```
  php bin/magento module:disable Magento_TwoFactorAuth
  ```

> 3. Log in to the admin using the credentials configured during the inital setup of Magento.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Log into the admin using the credentials configured during the inital setup of Magento.
```

---
layout: docs
title: Deploying Magento Open Source on Ubuntu 20.04
description: Learn how to deploy the Magento e-commerce platform on a dedicated server using a LAMP stack.
tags: compute dedicated server magento e-commerce onlineshop
excerpt: |
  Magento is one of the most popular e-commerce systems available, with more than 100.000 online stores based on the platform. It is written in PHP and uses the Zend Framework. Database-wise it uses the MySQL or MariaDB relational database system.
image: /assets/scaleway_magento.png
keywords: cloud tutorials, cloud documentations, cloud instance, cloud hosting, ubuntu server, debian server, linux server, IAAS, baremetal, e-commerce, magento, online shopping
dates:
  validation: 2021-09-21
  posted: 2020-06-17
---

Magento is one of the most popular e-commerce systems available, with more than 100.000 online stores based on the platform. It is written in PHP and uses the Zend Framework. Database-wise it uses the MySQL or MariaDB relational database system.

> The software is currently owned by Adobe, and is available in a free, community-driven, open-source version which is distributed under the [Open Software License (OSL) v3.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/OSL-3.0), an Open Source Initiative approved license. A [commercial version](https://magento.com/products/magento-commerce) of the software is also available and provides advanced support and additional features.

Reviewer 2: je me demande si c'est necessaire ce paragraphe ?

Author: removed

> In this tutorial you will learn how to install the Open Source version of Magento on a [Scaleway Instance](https://www.scaleway.com/en/virtual-instances/) dedicated server running on Ubuntu Focal Fossa (20.04 LTS). To accomplish this mission we will deploy a LAMP stack (Ubuntu Linux, Apache2, MariaDB, and PHP) to install Magento 2 Open Source Edition on your Dedibox.

Reviewer 2: c'est bizarre "to accomplish this mission"

Author: changed

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have a Scaleway account and are logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/)
  - You have [created](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) and [connected to](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/) a Scaleway Instance with at least 2GB RAM 
  - You have configured a domain name to point toward the IP address of your Instance ([A or AAAA record](/network/dns-cloud/concepts#resource-records))
  - You have [created a free Magento account](https://account.magento.com/customer/account/create/)

</Message>

> ## Preparing the Instance

Reviewer 2: Getting the Instance ready?

Author: changed

1. Open the file in a text editor.

  ```
  nano /etc/php/7.4/apache2/php.ini
  ```

2. Modify parameters as indicated below, save and exit.

  ```sh no-copy
  file_uploads = On
  allow_url_fopen = On
  short_open_tag = On
  memory_limit = 4096M
  cgi.fix_pathinfo = 0
  opcache.save_comments = 1
  upload_max_filesize = 150M
  max_execution_time = 1800
  realpath_cache_size=10M
  realpath_cache_ttl=7200
  date.timezone = Europe/Paris
  ```
3. Restart Apache.
  ```
  service apache2 restart 
  ```

## Setting up MariaDB

1. Install the MariaDB database server and client using the apt package manager. MariaDB is an open-source fork of the MySQL relational database system and provides compatibility with all MySQL commands. Magento has been tested to comply with all MariaDB features.

  ```
  apt install mariadb-server mariadb-client
  ```

2. Initialize the MariaDB database server by running the following command:

  ```
  sudo mysql_secure_installation
  ```

    You will be prompted to answer the following questions during installation:

    - **Enter current password for root (enter for none):** Press enter to continue, as the default MariaDB root password is empty.

>     - **Set root password? [Y/n]:** Type **Y** and press enter to continue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Set root password? [Y/N]:** Type **Y** and press enter to continue.
```

Author: c'est comme ça dans l'output

  ```
3. Restart Apache.

  ```
  sudo service apache2 restart
  ```
4. Rewrite `a2enmod`.
  ```
  sudo a2enmod rewrite
  ```
5. Enable Magento.
  ```
  sudo chmod -R 755 /home/username/magento2
  sudo chown -R username:username /home/username/magento2
  ```
6. Restart Apache once more. 
  ```
  sudo systemctl restart apache2.service
  ```

## Securing the connection using Let's Encrypt

By default plain HTTP connections are not encrypted and data is transmitted in clear text over the Internet. To secure the connection between your users and the e-commerce site, a TLS/SSL certificate is highly recommended. We will therefore request a free TLS certifiticate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). We use [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) to obtain and renew the certificate automatically for us.

1. Install `certbot` using the apt package manager:

  ```
  apt-get install certbot python3-certbot-apache
  certbot --apache
  ```

> 3. Follow the steps prompted by Certbot to obtain your certificate and reconfigure the Apache2 web server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Follow the steps prompted by Certbot to obtain your certificate and reconfigure the Apache2 web server.
```

> 4. You can now check your storefront by pointing your web browser to your domain name to check everything is working:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. You can now check your storefront by pointing your web browser to your domain name to check everything is working:
```
